# Problem Set 1
## MIT 6.006

### My Solutions ###
ps1_sol.tex

### Other Files ###
algorithms.py
* The Python file containing the four algorithms algorithm1, algorithm2, algorithm3, and algorithm4.  This is the file that you should spend most of your time looking at, to examine the four algorithms for correctness and efficiency.  You may assume that any bugs that might occur will occur in this file --- there is no need to examine any other files for correctness.

generate.py
* This Python file can be run to generate a random matrix.  With no arguments (such as when running the file in IDLE), the code generates a random matrix of size 10 x 10, with numbers between 0 and 200, and prompts the user for a place to save the result.  It also takes the following command-line arguments:
        
        ```python
        python generate.py [<filename> [<rows> <columns> [<maximum>]]]
        ``` 
        
* The first command-line argument, <filename>, specifies the output file. The next two command-line arguments, <rows> and <columns>, must both be specified for either one to be read.  The fourth and final command-line argument, <maximum>, specifies the maximum number that can be generated in any cell of the matrix.
   
macros.tex
* Cross-references for handout numbers.

main.py
* When this Python file is run, it loads a peak problem from a file that the user specifies, and does the following:
   
    (1) Tests all four algorithms on the desired peak problem, and outputs the results.
    
    (2) Generates a record of the execution of all four algorithms, and outputs both the peak problem and the execution traces to the file trace.jsonp.  These traces can be examined by displaying the file visualizer.html in a browser.

* When run with no arguments (such as when run in IDLE), main.py prompts the user for a file name to read the matrix from, defaulting to problem.py. It also takes a single optional argument (the filename to read the matrix from):

        ```python
        python main.py [<filename>]
        ```

peak.py
* This file contains the code for constructing a PeakProblem object, and a number of methods that can be called on such a problem.  These methods are used by the algorithms in algorithms.py.  Each of these functions has been labeled with its worst-case runtime, to simplify your analysis of the four algorithms.

problem.py
* This file contains a template for entering in a matrix.  This is also the default name for files read by main.py and written by generate.py.  The counterexamples that you submit should look like this, but instead of the matrix we have given you, you should find a matrix that causes at least one of the four algorithms to fail.

ps1.pdf
* The file containing the assignment.

ps1_README.txt
* Formatting instructions, coding instructions, directory contents, and compatibility

ps1_critique.tex
* This is the file where you will fill in your critique of your own proof, AFTER the assignment is due and the solutions have been released.  You should then copy and paste your proof into the designated location, and then provide a critique of your own proof afterwards.  The critique will be due AFTER the rest of the assignment is due.

trace.jsonp
* This file contains an object representing the history of the execution of the four algorithms.  You need not read it yourself --- it will be written by main.py, and read by visualizer.html.

trace.py
* This file contains the code for recording information about the sequence of steps performed by an algorithm.  Just like peak.py, it has been annotated with runtimes to make it easier to analyze the four algorithms.

utils.py
* This file contains some methods used for getting file names from the user. None of the functions in this file are used by any of the algorithms, so you are not responsible for reading and understanding this code.

visualizer.html
* An HTML visualizer for the algorithm traces generated by main.py.  The visualizer is a tool for improving your understanding of how the algorithms work.  The included legend explains what each of the symbols mean.
